Hello, I am Professor Sridhar Narasimhan of the Scheller College of Business at
Georgia Tech. I'll be teaching this module on linear regression in this course
on data analytics in business.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
There are several lessons in this module.
The first lesson is on the various steps involved in doing regression analysis,
which is a very iterative process. The next lesson is
an example real estate data set that we will use extensively in this module.
Lesson C is on the commonly used notation in regression analysis.
Lesson D is on how R squared and adjusted R squared are defined.
Lesson E is how to use R to do simple or one predictor regression.
Lessons F and G extend that to multiple variable regression and
show how R squared and adjusted R squared are calculated.
Finally, lesson H is about using regression to do prediction.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So there are various steps in regression analysis and
regression is an iterative process.
Step one is knowing what problem you are addressing.
The second step is to have a clear understanding of the type of
analytics that you plan to do. It's either diagnostic,
that is understanding why, predictive, what'll happen or prescriptive,
what to do to make something happen? This in turn affects step number three,
which is the selection of the relevant variables. Step four is determining V,
you're going to get the data. Internally within the organisation,
externally, are you going to purchase data, run experiments etc.
The next step is the choice of the fitting method. In this module,
we use ordinary least squares. In step six,
there is the issue of selecting software and
using it to fit a model using the data that we have. And
then we get estimates of the parameter. Step seven is about diagnostics.
Step eight is to reflect on the model and improve it if necessary.
Finally, the model is ready for its intended use. Nope,
that building a regression model is an iterative process as you
follow the steps in the previous slides, you may have to add
constant variables and add interaction terms. As the modeler you
have to be satisfied that you have taken adequate care while developing your model.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Nearly every business function is a candidate for regression analysis.
I list a few examples to illustrate the broad variety of applications.
The first example has to do with pricing of use cars. And
how it is related to it's mileage, it's age, condition, etc.
The second example has to do with the effect of advertising on sales.
The code example addresses an operations issue. The fourth
example is from e-commerce. What is the contribution of a product's ratings and
price on the likelihood of that product being added to a shopping cart?
The fifth example is how to set starting salaries for
new employees based on their work experience and years of education.
The sixth example is setting the sales price of a house using it's size,
the number of bedrooms and it's location in a city.
The second last example is from finance, will a customer default on their loan?
And how is that associated with his or her credit balance, income,
age. The last example has to do with customer churn and
how that is impacted by our customers length of contract and age.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Before we go to the next lesson, try take a moment to answer this quiz.
Could a variable, say price be either a dependent or an independent variable?
Answer true, this depends on the purpose of your model. See where price
appears in examples number one, and number four in the previous slide.
Next question, a variable that takes binary values for example,
pass or fail, or true or false cannot be a dependent variable.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
The answer is false. We do use 0/1 dependent variables in logistic regression
in a different module. Example number seven in
the previous slide is one instance where we have
to use binary dependent variables. [SOUND]