In this lesson, we're going to introduce a real estate data set that
we will use extensively iIn this lesson. Assume that you need to sell your house,
you want to predict the listing price based on how
other houses are listed in the market. How would you approach this task?
[BLANK_AUDIO]
A typical approach is to ask realtors. And realtors often will use comparable.
That's recent sales of houses in your neighborhood,
usually three to five houses and somehow come up with a suggested sale price.
However, you want to be more analytical in your approach.
You have access to recent actual home sales in your city.
You'd like to know what are the impacts of factors such as lot size,
number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms, ec on the price. Could you
use linear regression to help you get a better estimate of the listing price?
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Conveniently for us, there is a dataset in the R package Ecdat.
This dataset has a cross section of 546 home
prices In the city of Windsor in Canada. So
this data set is a sample of the real estate transactions in one city, and
it's called the housing data frame. It's a cross section,
as I mentioned of home prices in one city in Canada. Alternatively,
if you could collect house prices from websites or scrape them from the web,
that could also be a good source of data for something like this.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So looking at this housing dataset, we see that there are a whole bunch of variables.
Some of quantitative and there are about six of them that are quantitative and
six of them that are categorical. So categorical variables
are also called factors in R. Note that 1 is no and
2 is yes is how the factor variables are coded in R
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Taking a look at these first ten records in housing,
you'll see that the first row of data has a house whose price is $42,000 and
a lot size of 5850 Square feet. It has three bedrooms, one bathroom,
and is two stories tall. The house has a driveway. It does not have a recroom.
It has a full basement. It has no gas heated hot water system.
It has no air conditioning. Has a one car garage. And
is not in a preferred neighborhood of the city.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
One important thing to do before you start doing regression is to do
exploratory data analysis and histograms help with that.
So it always helps to do histograms of some of the key variables.
So this is the histogram of prices which is skewed to the right.
The median value of home sold is $62,000. And
the main value is 68,122.
We've also done the histogram of the distribution of lotsizes, and
this is also skewed to the right. The median value here is 4600 square feet,
and the mean value is 5,150 square feet.
It's always useful to do a correlation metrics of the key variables, prior to
building a linear regression model. As you can see, the correlation between price and
lotsize is interesting, and will help develop a simple regression model.
This matrix also shows the density functions along the diagonal and
scatter plots of the two variables in the lower triangle.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
In this scatter plot, the y-axis denotes home prices and
the x-axis shows the lotsize. A simple linear regression line
seems a reasonable place to start doing R regression analysis. So please
take a look at this quiz before you go to the next lesson in this module. The mean
of a variable that has a right-skewed distribution is smaller than the median.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Answer is false.
The correlation coefficient can capture the strength of both linear and
non-linear relationships. The answer is false.
[MUSIC]