Hi, I'm Professor Sridhar Narasimhan of the Scheller College of Business
at Georgia Tech.
In this module, we are going to understand how indicator or
dummy variables are used in regression analysis.
Note, that I'll be using the terms indicator variables and
dummy variables, interchangeably, both mean the same thing.
This module is part of this course on data analytics and business.
There are five lessons in this module.
In the first lesson,
we will introduce a Customer Analytics Dataset.
In the second lesson, we'll see how indicator or
dummy variables are created and used in a regression model.
In the third lesson, we will interpret the coefficients of indicator variables.
In the fourth lesson, we'll see how interaction terms are used and
how do we interpret the coefficient of interaction terms.
And the final lesson is another example to using indicator variables in regression.
So we're going to use a data set that is from a direct marketing company.
So a direct marketing firm has a data set containing information on past
customer behavior actually the amount spent on buying products.
And this is a simulated data set which mimics data from a direct
marketing company.
We are interested in knowing which customer characteristics can predict
AmountSpent, that is the amount our customer spends on buying products.
To answer questions like this, we introduce indicator variables and
interaction terms and try to understand their interpretation in regression models.
So the direct marketing data set has these variables
starting with age, gender and going on to does the customer own a home or not?
Is she or he married, location, salary, number of children,
the type of customer, the number of catalogs sent to this customer and
then AmountSpent, the amount of purchases made by this customer.
So the first few records look like shown here,
and I show this in a table in the next slide.
So this is the structure of the data set, and
the first ten rows of this dataframe look as follows.
So let's explore this dataframe a bit further.
We'd like to understand why some individuals spend more than others.
In particular, we'd like to investigate whether salary
has an influence on AmountSpent.
So how do we get started?
So to keep matters clear, we start with AmountSpent and Salary and
just pick those two variables for the initial analysis.
So we'll do a scatterplot, plot Salary on the x axis and
AmountSpent on the y axis, and we get this scatterplot.
And then we do a simple regression model of AmountSpent
against Salary, and this is the values we get.
And this is scatterplot with the regression line.
So we've introduced custom analytics data set in this lesson to illustrate
indicator variables.
[SOUND]